Background Information
Gender Based Violence is more dominant in our generation than in past generations.
This is more accurate considering that the male gender is also experiencing Gender Violence.
This has resulted in more cases of drug abuse, depression suicide and many other traumas based effects in our community.
 The world is advancing at a fast rate.
 With this change, more women are taking a lead role in jobs that are traditionally male in nature according to society.
 This has led to an increase in the likelihood of more men working around the house and helping out with the kids.
  In society’s eyes, this is pitiful since according to the stereotype that is as old as time, men are supposed to be ruthless and domineering.
  This is more imposed on the newest generation of men more heavily now.
  This has resulted to men often beating and abusing their wives and children (particularly of the female gender) so as to assert their masculinity in the eyes of society.
  Indeed, some have gone as far as even assaulting other people’s daughters and wives by raping them so as to show that they are the ‘alpha male’.
    Boys are not left behind either. Without leaving behind the male gender, there has been a rise in the cases of male gender violence.
 Even when the society
 perceives them to be the perpetrators they can also be the victims of gender based violence.
  These factors combined together increase the statistics of Gender Based Violence in the world to staggering proportions.
  This problem is not new as several cases of women being tortured and physically or sexually abused by their husbands or other male members of the community is constantly being reported every single day.
  This is also the case in instances where girls have been raped or forcefully circumcised.
  However, cases which involve men being abused are rarely reported. Again, the stereotype comes into play.
   This is because from time we are born, it is drummed into our heads that men are domineering, aggressive and more headstrong of the weaker gender.
  Therefore, to avoid the shame that comes with abuse, men tend to hide their experience.
   This triggers a reaction in which the victim feels more inferior to others to around them.
   More often than not, many men tend to take out their frustration on women around them hence leading to a never-ending cycle of pain, hurt and abuse.
   The male gender also experiences emotional, social and even physical abuse. This is often ignored by the society since the society itself stereotypes the male gender to be the ones to be in the bad picture. Whenever the issue of gender based violence is to be talked about many people would certainly say that the male gender is always responsible for the abuse yet the society tends to forget that there is a gender called the male gender and that also experiences the effects of the gender based violence.
   The male gender often then decides to keep what they feel to themselves and end up bringing themselves more damage and pain. This is also brought about by the society, again, by stereotyping the male gender to be the stronger one.


Literature Review
   The term ‘gender’ refers to the fact of being male or female. This is especially true when talking about societal and cultural inclinations rather than biological.
   From this, we can derive that ‘Gender Based Violence’ refers to unnecessary acts of violence meted out to an individual based on their gender or sex.
   The story of Gender Based Violence has gone on for as long as the chicken and egg one. From this, we should assume that Gender Violence should be in the process of stopping completely.
   Unfortunately, as of 2023, Gender Violence is one of the most ignored social problems in the world and statistics show no sign of it stopping soon. In fact, a recently concluded study showed that during the lockdown period of the 2020 Corona virus pandemic, many women suffered abuse at the hands of their spouses.
   Internationally, Singapore has the highest rates of gender violence with a whopping 33%, followed by France at 30%, Cyprus at 25% and Spain at 18%. More surprising is that according to the World Health Organisation, every one in three women has been raped, every one in five women has experienced Gender Violence and every two in ten women have witnessed Gender Violence being done on someone else.
   These statistics are not only demoralizing but they are also very shocking. Considering the fact that the world is advancing technologically at a fast pace, humankind is still associated with retrograde aspects such as the frequent abuse of women at the hands of men. Moreover, Gender Violence in our generation has escalated to the point where men are also sufferers of abuse.
   Gender Violence meted out against women is given priority since it is virtually considered that women are the weaker gender. It is a common belief that while male gender is supposed to be dominant, ruthless and in control of the situation, women are supposed to be docile, gentle and caring. Therefore, many men do not report cases of being abused or raped due to fear of the stigma that would be surely shown unto them by other members of society.
   The situation is not any better in Africa.

PROBLEMS EXPERIENCED IN GENDER BASED VIOLENCE
    I. Poor communication and collaboration between actors and other sectors.
     An effective response to violence victims require the sector to work closely
     with other actors from health and justice sectors, and involving local authorities,
     legal assistance and other survivor support groups and organizations in order to
     promote the potential prosecution of the perpetrator(s). In practice, there is often
     limited and at times no cooperation between security actors and other service
     providers (e.g. health, shelter, judicial personnel) or civil society organizations
     supporting victims.

    II. Discriminatory socio-cultural norms and gender stereotypes:
     Most societies: Most societies remain male-dominated and in many communities,
     violence against victims is largely accepted as a norm. The socio stigmatization
     of gender-based violence survivors by family members, authorities, service providers,
     and police or other law enforcement actors can prevent victims from reporting cases of abuse.

    III.  Dominance of formal justice systems and customary law: In many communities across
    regions, especially within indigenous communities, rural areas or in settings where formal
    justice systems are weak, informal justice systems, tribal and customary law prevail. Victims
    may rely on or prefer to use informal justice systems; they may be perceived as the only
    option for resource available, may be more easily accessible within the community than formal
    justice mechanisms, or may be seen to uphold traditional values. Victims may also pursue
    informal justice because they fear being stigmatized within their family and community.

    IV. The GBV centres at common hospitals in Kenya do not have a 360- degree approach to
    Gender Based Violence, with the regards to having a holistic health (mental, physical and
    psychological), reporting (police involvement and case generation) under one roof.
     This approach by hospitals and supporting partners, would mean effective case reporting,
     follow up and prosecution.

    V. The number of formal support and response services for survivors are limited,
    and more prevalent in urban areas.

    VI. There are notable gaps in service provision in rural areas, and across all
     counties, a key barrier as the services provided are distant to victims, combined
     with the challenging transport conditions and associated costs.

    VII. Awareness of available services is quite low in some areas.

    VIII. Awareness of police stations is generally high, yet police presence varies in the counties.
    IX.  The provision of health services in rural locations is facilitated by local
    clinics and the dispensaries, but referrals to hospitals for more specialized services can be difficult.

    X. Access to formal justice services is limited due to high costs,
    restricted availability, and a common practice to resolve cases t a local level.

    XI. Some crucial responses to gender based violence such as provision of
    shelters to victims lack in some areas.


PREVIOUS SOLUTIONS TO GENDER BASED VIOLENCE
The previous solutions to curb gender based violence are:
Implementation of GBV laws and policies
        a.  Funding of prevention and response measures 
        b. Introduction of modules on GBV in the health survey to strengthen
        the utilisation of gender statistics in informing the design, scale-up and
        evaluation of GBV programming.
        c. Development of GBV management and information system to strengthen
        GBV prevention and response programming.
        d. Provision of GBV services- medical, legal and psychological support services.
        e. Scaling of the police service integrated response to GBV and establishment
        of Gender-Based Violence Recovery Centres and shelters.
        f. Rolling out of campaigns against gender based violence.


Features or the app
The app contains the following features:
    • Diary / journal
    • Report
    • Groups
    • Assistants
    • Profile
    • Information central


Objectives of the app
    • To create a platform in which victims can freely gain help without discrimination
    • To provide a platform in which cases of male gender violence can be addressed.
    • To provide a platform where accurate information on Gender Based Violence can be issued.
    • To aid law enforcement in the prosecution of people who commit acts of gender violence.
    • To give victims to get to know that they are not alone in what they are facing and
    hence giving them a platform where they can interact with other people experiencing the
    same situation they are or people who have undergone the same situation and have managed to survive.


Merits of the app
    • It helps law enforcement to prosecute perpetrators of Gender Violence
    • It helps to curb Gender Based Violence
    • It helps to create awareness of Gender Based Violence
    • It gives victims of Gender Violence a platform to reach out for help
    • It sheds a light on male gender based violence
    • It gives victims of gender based violence the chance to interact with other victims

Limitation of the app
    • Most of the population of the world has low purchasing power hence cannot afford to buy smart phones.

Assumption of the app
The app will make a big impact in the fight against Gender Based Violence
by assisting law enforcement to catch perpetrators by aiding in the availability of sufficient
evidence and providing victims of Gender Violence with a safe space to work out their issues and
find a way to cope with their problems

